CLDR-18576 start/end in era supplemental data (#5095)
unicode-org/cldr: docs/ldml/tr35-dates.md

<!ATTLIST era aliases NMTOKENS #IMPLIED >
```

The `<calendarData>` element now provides only locale-independent data about calendar behaviors via its `<calendar>` subelements,
which for each calendar can specify the astronomical basis of the calendar (solar, lunar, etc.) and the date ranges for its eras.
For example:

```xml
<calendar type="gregorian">
  <calendarSystem type="solar" />
  <eras>
    <era type="0" end="0-12-31" code="bce" aliases="bc"/> <!-- Before Common Era, Before Christ -->
    <era type="1" start="1-01-01" code="ce" aliases="ad"/> <!-- Common Era, Anno Domini -->
  </eras>
</calendar>
```
The `type` has an integer value. 
The type values do not have to start at 0, nor be contiguous.

> However, they must be unique for the calendar, and define the ordering of `era`s within that calendar.

Reviewer: this sounds like it defines a chronological ordering, which it does not

Reviewer: > IMO, we should deprecate the end attribute, and say that all of the eras must have a start date (except optionally the first).

That makes sense. Currently only inverse eras have an end date, but there it's always the day before the next start, so it's kind of redundant.

> Now, if it is already the case that all but possibly one era has a start date, we could move to that this release.

That's the case.

> That way the ordering is firmly established by the ordering of the start dates, and the ordering of the types is irrelevant.

That's the ordering I also have in mind, but here you say that the type defines an ordering, which is wrong.

Author: I redid https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/CLDR-19023 to make it clearer, and will bring this up in the Design meeting today to see if we can fast-track it.

Author: @robertbastian please let me know if there are any problems you see in that.

Reviewer: lg, just the timezone thing I already commented on

Era `start` or `end` dates are specified in terms of the equivalent _proleptic_ Gregorian date in the format "yyyy-MM-dd", such as 1842-01-01.
These behave the same as the `to` and `from` attributes described in [Date and Date Ranges](tr35.md#date-and-date-ranges).

> For the first era, the start date is -∞ (to the limit of the datetime datatype) whether or not there is a `start` attribute.

Reviewer: the "whether or not there is a `start` attribute" is just needed if we accidentally put a start attribute on the first era? I think we don't need this safety rail

> For the first era, the start date is -∞ (to the limit of the datetime datatype) whether or not there is a `start` attribute.

Reviewer: define "first era"? it's not the one with the lowest `type`

This may result in negative years.
For the last era, the end date is  ∞ (to the limit of the datetime datatype), whether or not there is an `end` attribute.
The "first" and "last" eras are _after_ any import of eras using the the `inheritEras` element (see below).

For a sequence of eras with specified start dates, the end of each era need not be explicitly specified (it is assumed to match the start of the subsequent era).
For example, here some eras for the Japanese calendar:

```xml
    <era type="234" start="1926-12-25" code="showa"/>
    <era type="235" start="1989-01-08" code="heisei"/>
    <era type="236" start="2019-05-01" code="reiwa"/>
…
```

The following are illegal:
- an undefined transition: one era with no `end`, with the following era having no `start` attribute
- an overlap: one era with an `end`, with the following era having a `start` before that `end`

> - a discontinuity: one era with an `end`, with the following era having a `start` that is not immediately after the end.

Reviewer: why even consider this, and not just make the start attribute implicitly end the previous era?

Eras may have additional `code` and `aliases` attributes that define invariant strings for identifying the eras.

> The `code` is a single globally unique identifier, and `aliases` are space-separated identifiers unique within the calendar.

Reviewer: it's not globally unique anymore, it's unique per calendar

Author: Ok, I can drop that; it was a leftover from the previous release. (And I wasn't sure what you all intended.

</calendar>
```

If a `<calendar>` contains an `<inheritEras/>` element, all eras from the specified calendar should be inserted in order into the sequence of eras for the current calendar, as described below.
For example, the following means that the two eras from calendar "gregorian" should be inserted into the era list for "japanese" for calculations and formatting.

```xml
<calendar type="japanese">
  <inheritEras calendar="gregorian" />
  <eras>
    <era type="232" start="1868-10-23" code="meiji"/>
    <era type="233" start="1912-07-30" code="taisho"/>
    <era type="234" start="1926-12-25" code="showa"/>
    <era type="235" start="1989-01-08" code="heisei"/>
    <era type="236" start="2019-05-01" code="reiwa"/>
  </eras>
</calendar>
```

Each `era` element has a `code` attribute and optional `aliases` attributes that define invariant strings for identifying the eras.
The `code` is unique within the calendar, and the `aliases` are space-separated identifiers, each also unique within the calendar.

The `start` date is specified in terms of the equivalent _proleptic_ Gregorian date in the format "yyyy-MM-dd", such as 1842-01-01.
An omitted start date behaves as if start=-∞.

> See also [Date and Date Ranges](tr35.md#date-and-date-ranges). 

Author: Will drop for now

The order for the eras is given by the following algorithm:
- Include all eras from the inheritEras calendar, if there is one.
- At most one element can have the start date omitted (otherwise the data is invalid).
If there is such an element, it sorts before all other eras.
- All other elements are ordered by their start dates.
- No two elements can have the same start date (otherwise the data is invalid).

Note that the order of the eras is _not_ necessarily the order in the XML file, nor is it based on the numeric value of the types.

For a given _proleptic_ Gregorian date D and calendar C, the era code for D is in the `era` element in C with the greatest start date ≤ the given date.
It is also the _first_ `era` element with start date ≤ the given date in C, given the above ordering for `era` elements.

The `type` has an integer value. 
The type values do not have to start at 0.

> They are maintained for use by older software, for identifying the eras.

Author: ```suggestion
They are used to access the era names in locale files.
For example:

```xml
<era type="232">Meiji</era>
<era type="233">Taishō</era>
<era type="234">Shōwa</era>
<era type="235">Heisei</era>
<era type="236">Reiwa</era>
```
The `code` can also be used to access the era names, by mapping to the `type`.
```

> They are maintained for use by older software, for identifying the eras.

Author: fixing
